docs/source/langchain_couchbase.rst, before:

This page contains the complete API reference for the ``langchain-couchbase`` package. 
For usage examples and tutorials, see the :doc:`usage` page.

The package provides three main components:

* **Vector Stores** - Store and search document embeddings in Couchbase
* **Caching** - Cache LLM responses and enable semantic caching
* **Chat Message History** - Store conversation history in Couchbase

Vector Stores
-------------

Couchbase Search Vector Store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.vectorstores.search_vector_store
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Couchbase Vector Store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::
   This class is deprecated since version 0.3.0 and will be removed in version 1.0.0.
   Use :class:`CouchbaseSearchVectorStore` instead.

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.vectorstores.vectorstores
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:


Base Vector Store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.vectorstores.base_vector_store
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Caching
-------

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.cache
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Chat Message History
--------------------

Couchbase Chat Message History
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.chat_message_histories
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Package Overview
----------------

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Commit message:

Add support for vector search using Query & Indexing Services (#24)

docs/source/langchain_couchbase.rst, after:

This page contains the complete API reference for the ``langchain-couchbase`` package. 
For usage examples and tutorials, see the :doc:`usage` page.

The package provides three main components:

* **Vector Stores** - Store and search document embeddings in Couchbase
   - Couchbase Query Vector Store (Query and Index service)
   - Couchbase Search Vector Store (Search service)
* **Caching** - Cache LLM responses and enable semantic caching
* **Chat Message History** - Store conversation history in Couchbase

Vector Stores
-------------

Couchbase Query Vector Store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. Note::
   This vector store uses the Query and Index service to store and search document embeddings. And is available in Couchbase Server versions 8.0 and above.

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.vectorstores.query_vector_store
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Couchbase Search Vector Store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. Note::
   This vector store uses the Search service to store and search document embeddings. And is available in Couchbase Server versions 7.6 and above.

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.vectorstores.search_vector_store
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Couchbase Vector Store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::
   This class is deprecated since version 0.3.0 and will be removed in version 1.0.0.
   Use :class:`CouchbaseSearchVectorStore` instead.

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.vectorstores.vectorstores
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:


Base Vector Store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.vectorstores.base_vector_store
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Caching
-------

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.cache
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Chat Message History
--------------------

Couchbase Chat Message History
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase.chat_message_histories
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:

Package Overview
----------------

.. automodule:: langchain_couchbase
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :undoc-members:
